Hi Chris,

I appreciated our chat yesterday. I just wanted to follow up with a more focused version of what I said yesterday to the benefit of any policy discussions that might come of this.

In essence, I think any good to the student body that might come of a broad 'stop-and-frisk' policy are far outweighed by the harm that can come to students in the form of 
a) trauma from being singled out for a search, particularly those demographics finding themselves now increasingly political targets in their day-to-day life. "Reasonable suspicion" to me sounds like rhetorical hand-waving for "I had a hunch". And if we spell it that way, it doesn't sound so benign, and in fact starts to sound quite a bit more ominous.
b) fomenting distrust of good-faith deference to experience or wisdom of, e.g., adult role models including teachers and administrators
c) increasingly normalized surveillance and a more general spread of institutional overreach
Which is all to say, in the absence of an immediate threat to a someone's safety, civic respect for the privacy of a student's person should be sacrosanct.

I think there is probably a bureaucratic temptation, however ignorantly (in either good or bad faith), to assume these sorts of intrusions don't affect people and that it's zero-sum. But this type of enforcement does come with a cost--kids don't just go on their way and carry on. They form opinions about their worth through various social lenses, they get distracted, the get resentful. And the certainly don't quit vaping in the event of a positive search.

A related tangent that I did not address, and gets missed in policy discourse, is that a ton of research points to vaping being an extremely effective harm reduction technique (linked below). Of course the upshot of this isn't 'kids should be allowed to vape in school', but I do think that thinking about this particular issue warrants thinking about with some nuance, as any social influence that could push people back toward smoking would definitely be a step backwards.

Anyway, I wanted to provide this summary of my broad and narrow concerns in hopes that it can be used toward making an environment where students feel safer. Even the ones who sometimes make questionable choices.

I'd be happy to discuss any of this further.

Best,
Neko

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32061550/


-
Neko Juers
Software & Systems Engineer—Monitoring and Information Systems
GlobalNOC—Bloomington, IN
Not he/him (they/she/it/OP/etc…)

Great fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite 'em,
And little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum
And the great fleas themselves, in turn, have greater fleas to go on;
While these again have greater still, and greater still, and so on.

Siphonaptera
Augustus DeMorgan
--
