---

In ninth grade I learned about the Nazis and WWII, about the Palmer Raids and the Red Scare from a balding civically minded social studies teacher who listened to Rush Limbaugh every day before and after class. Of course I was too young at the time to really understand the hypocrisy in that, but he really seemed to believe what he said about due process and what the Constitution was for. And he made me wonder how it happened or what I would have done. But here we are.

I've never considered myself patriotic and I've always questioned the impulse. I have nothing to do with the cosmic decisions made by chaos to put me here, at this point in history, to try to make sense of the ungroundedness that comes with realizing that humans are really kind of inhuman, in real time. I bear no pride in what is ultimately an accident of fate. At least until now. No, I'm not proud to be an American.

But chaos has seen fit to place me in a nation with no borders, a soveirgn republic of billions of souls resonating toward a combined purpose of betterness. Better than nature, red in tooth in claw. Better than simple answers privileged by mere historic contingency. Better than the impulse toward righteous cruelty. We are better than acquiescence.

I used to say, however naively, "Twitter will save the world." I stand by that, with the obvious caveat that Twitter is no longer Twitter. But we are connected in a way we never have been in history, billions of souls vibrating together and bonding over memes and shared experiences and stories. Shared multiplicative rage over the trafficking of humans in our name. An integrated, global sense of wit that would have been unthinkable the last time the tried this, together disentangling the lies and disingenuities. Sharing legal resources and documents.

Fascism is little more than the political manifestation of a cancerous allergy to nuance. But we contain multitudes. Full of nature and its contradictions, we stand for nuance. We stand for beauty and pride in all that we can become by listening, even as the bullies in charge have co-opted the language of rationality in their continuous vocalization of utter bullshit. I don't know if there is such a thing as objective truth but I do know this--reality is weird, and nuance wins.

I've never been proud to be an American, but I am prouder to be one of the connected soul of humanity--of the Children of Nuance. I'm no optimist, and I'm discouraged as fuck. But I've had a few crises of faith and I recognize this to be the opposite. Go wreck shit, whatever Mr. Pezzutti thinks about it now.
