---
Syntactic sugar for semantic maror


Perhaps we might think of the process of justice, however we define that, as digestion. Fed the meat of action seasoned with the salt of social context, a bit of partisan guile, and social media hyperbole, we hope this writhing can break down the inconsistencies we cannot fathom digesting ourselves into a mass whose analysis grants us some clarity into our habits and predilections. A neatly formed pile of pronouncements, perhaps, for the consideration of the body politic to suggest that at worst, we might chew our corn a bit better.

But what of those effluencies more clearly pathological? A spreading mass, all bloody and mucosal, of slime that should have been gatekept by those organs overtaken with cancerous lesions and physiological blind spots of discourse that our keepers have assured us they could handle because we were too dumb or not sufficiently interested. The scourge of pantomime blanket good faith and civility. Having eaten crayons to mask the clear sight of bile, we carry on. A fractalized human centipede shaped like an ouroboros with extremities whose interior members can stay satisfied by inspecting the occasional leakings around the stitches.

So we've abstracted away this process to fancy wooden rooms and mysterious robed figures and euphemized justice as just.. "whatever we get". If you wanna do something awful, just make it legal first.

But "whatever we get" is a truism, isn't it? What is justice if not some indefinable sense that karma has been mediated satisfyingly--whatever's accumulated in the margins during deliberations notwithstanding, and whatever innocent blood has been rent to glucose and peptides for The Whole? But then we built the margins big, didn't we? 

Justice (or injustice if you prefer) as a concept, will always exist as a byproduct of entitlement to agency, regardless of our tendency to institutionalize it for our momentary convenience and regardless of whatever course of fratification those institutions follow. Do we really suppose team Kavanaugh is doing anything better or more spiritually defensible than "an eye for an eye"? Or do we simply loathe the role of the surgeon that much that we hand the suture kit over willingly to the cosmically depraved who attended medical school on clout?

Well if we're doomed to be connected anyway let's pull the stitches apart and create something a bit less horrific, and a bit less content with the opaquely comprised, dribbling discharge of institutional ulceration, more aware of what to excise and when, and wholly more human. And then we can leave what's left to digest itself.
