The beaurocracy is an abstraction of some complicated human task--who to pay and when, for instance--into a tractable binary.
That it, it is inherently marginalizing to human situations that do not fit into such.
The ethos of efficiency around which the beaurocracy is built is not a human one; it is a mechanical one,
erected to navigate human complexity with a minimum of human consideration.
It is a means of discretizing the organic and turning a human interaction into a decision tree.

There are those among us who are have yet to comprehend our bias toward beaurocratic solutions, and who retain the conviction that we can build something better by riffling the endless file cabinets of all the dehumanizing beaurocracies of Capitalism--which fails to thrive without such because Capitalism is inherently only concerned with the level of the entity in isolation, *not* the community, which is a very different, multiply integrated sort of entity--more of an organism in most ways.
Because the community is inherently complex it defies categorization as an entity--after all where are its boundaries?
The verbage surrounding conversations we have in the community surrounding procedure have an air of deference--the Rule wins by default, however we choose to euphemize it.
I submit that this is a violation of the human spirit, and as such a violation of the raison d'etre of Community.

Which is all to say, that we should think very carefully about, e.g., which technologies we use and in what capacities using them is paramount (or tantamount) to community participation, and what constraints are otherwise placed on members' abilities to *simply exist* as a matter of course.
If being part of this community constitutes a job, then it may maintain its material utility vis a vis "affordable housing" or whatever the buzzword is at the moment, but ultimately fail the spiritual imperitive of actually providing Community, which to me represents above all a safe space from the threshing floor of institutional conformity, manifest as, e.g., the options not to hang out in a 150 sq ft room with fifty of you because Somebody decided there was an important meeting that day, smoke weed on the porch, and generally avoid the largest and most disheartening beaurocratic bin of all--"Just Because".
